### OOPS Terminologies

- **Class:** Class is a blueprint / template for instantiating objects. Objects that are created from a same class will have same properties but the values of these properties might differ
- **Attributes:** These are the variables that are defined in a class which store the information about an object aka object's properties. These are of two types
    - **Instance-Level Attributes:** These are the attributes that are unique to each instance. When we create an object, each object gets its own instance level attributes. Usually these attributes are assigned through the `__init__` method of the class, thus we are initializing a new object with its attributes
    - The first parameter in a Python class is always the self keyword. It is a special variable used as a reference to the calling object. We can refer any instance level attribute with the `self` keyword within the class
    - **Class Level Attributes:** Contrast to instance-level attributes which are unique to each class, the class level attributes are shared by all the instances of a class. These are defined outside the `__init__` method. These attributes are assocaited with the class itself but not with any specific instance of the class
- **Methods:** An independent definition created anywhere in the program is called a “function”. However, a function is called a “method” when defined inside a class. They usually operate on the attributes of an object and we access them through the `self` keyword
- **Object:** An instance of a class is called the Object. When creating the objects, the `__init__` method gets invoked to assign the values to the instance level attributes(`__init__` ain't the first method to get invoked when creating the instance, but its the `__new__` method that invokes then follwed by that the `__init__`). The attributes of an object can be accessed by the dot notation i.e. `object_name.attribute_name`, in similar fashion we even call the methods